.TH "postproc manual" 1 "" ""


.P
\fIThis document was last edited on Saturday, 26 November 2005.\fR

.SS Name
.P
postproc\-\-Re\-sync or requantize an MPEG file

.SS Synopsis
.nf
  makeslides [ OPTIONS ] IN_FILE OUT_FILE
.fi


.SS Description
.P
postproc is designed to do simple post\-processing to finished MPEG videos from
tovid. After encoding a video with tovid, you may find that the finished video
is too large, or has A/V sync problems; this utility can help.

.SS Features
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Can adjust the offset between audio and video, if there is an undesirable
delay between them.
.IP \(bu 3
Can requantize ("shrink") video to reduce file size at the expense of
quality.
.RE

.SS Options
.nf
  -audiodelay [NUM]
      Delay the audio stream by [NUM] milliseconds. Use this if
      your final output has audio that is not synced with the
      video. For example, if the audio comes 2 seconds sooner than
      the video, use "-audiodelay 2000". Use a negative number for
      audio that comes later than the video.
  -shrink [NUM]
      Shrink the video stream by a factor of [NUM]. May be a decimal
      value. A value of 1.0 means the video will be the same size;
      larger values cause more reduction in size. Beyond 2.0, the
      returns are diminishing.
  -parallel
      Run all processes in parallel and pipe into multiplexer should
      increase speed significantly.
  -debug
      Save output in a temporary file, for later viewing if
      something goes wrong.
.fi


.SS Contact
.P
For further assistance, contact information, forum and IRC links,
please refer to the tovid homepage (http://tovid.org/).


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.1 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/src/en/postproc.t2t -o /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/man/postproc.1

