.TH "tovid manual" 1 "" ""


.P
\fIThis document was last edited on Monday, 06 February 2006.\fR

.SS Name
.P
tovid\-\-Convert video to (S)VCD/DVD format

.SS Synopsis
.nf
  tovid [OPTIONS] -in INFILE -out OUTPREFIX
.fi


.SS Description
.P
tovid converts arbitrary video files into (S)VCD/DVD\-compliant
MPEG format, suitable for burning to CD/DVD\-R for playback on a
standalone DVD player.

.SS Features
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Can create a variety of MPEG output formats, including
VCD, SVCD, DVD, Half\-DVD, and VCD\-on\-DVD (the \-vcd,
\-svcd, \-dvd, \-half\-dvd,
and \-dvd\-vcd options, respectively)
.IP \(bu 3
Skips encoding of already\-valid video and audio streams,
to avoid unnecessary quality degradation
.IP \(bu 3
Supports PAL and NTSC output (the \-pal and
\-ntsc options)
.IP \(bu 3
Automatic aspect ratio detection. You can override the
auto\-detection with the \-aspect W:H option, or use
standard aspect ratios \-full (4:3), \-wide
(16:9), and \-panavision (2.35:1).
.IP \(bu 3
Picture quality enhancement via the \-filters
option.
.IP \(bu 3
Interlaced encoding for all formats except VCD
(the \-interlaced option)
.IP \(bu 3
Can normalize the volume of too\-loud or too\-soft audio (the
\-normalize option)
.IP \(bu 3
Automatically splits output files into chunks for burning
to multiple CDs or DVDs. Use the \-discsize option
to specify a custom disc size.
.IP \(bu 3
Automatic quantization adjustment based on the selected
video bitrate. High bitrates use low quantization (high quality), while
low bitrates use higher quantization.
.IP \(bu 3
Prints out statistics, including resulting file size,
bitrate, and encoding time, and logs statistics to
~/.tovid/stats
.IP \(bu 3
Utilizes multiprocessing during video encoding on systems
with more than one CPU
.IP \(bu 3
Estimates and reports required space before encoding, and
warns if there's not enough space to encode
.IP \(bu 3
Progress indicator and estimated completion time shown
during encoding
.IP \(bu 3
Adjustable priority to prevent encoding from interfering
with your other computing activities (the
\-priority [low|medium|high] option)
.IP \(bu 3
Parallel processing, via the \-parallel
option, to help maximize CPU usage during encoding (especially for
multi\-CPU encoding)
.RE

.SS Usage
.P
To use tovid, run a command like this:

.nf
  tovid [OPTIONS] -in INFILE -out OUTPREFIX
.fi


.P
Where INFILE is any multimedia video file, and OUTPREFIX is what
you want to call the output file, minus the file extension. OPTIONS
are additional customizations, described below.

.P
By default, you will (hopefully) end up with an NTSC DVD\-compliant
MPEG\-2 video file; if you burn this file to a DVD\-R, it should be
playable on most DVD players.

.SS Options
.nf
  -v, -version    Prints tovid version number only
.fi


.SS Television standards
.nf
  -ntsc
      NTSC format video (USA, Americas) (default)
  -ntscfilm
      NTSC-film format video
  -pal
      PAL format video (Europe and others)
.fi


.SS Formats
.P
Standard formats, should be playable in most DVD players:

.nf
  -dvd
      (720x480 NTSC, 720x576 PAL) DVD-compatible output (default)
  -half-dvd
      (352x480 NTSC, 352x576 PAL) Half-D1-compatible output
  -svcd
      (480x480 NTSC, 480x576 PAL) Super VideoCD-compatible output
  -dvd-vcd
      (352x240 NTSC, 352x288 PAL) VCD-on-DVD output
  -vcd
      (352x240 NTSC, 352x288 PAL) VideoCD-compatible output
.fi


.P
Non\-standard formats, playable in some DVD players:

.nf
  -kvcdx3/-kvcd
      (528x480 NTSC, 520x576 PAL) KVCDx3 long-playing VCD
  -kvcdx3a/-ksvcd
      (544x480 NTSC, 544x576 PAL) KVCDx3A long-playing VCD
  -kdvd
      (720x480 NTSC, 720x576 PAL) KDVD long-playing DVD
.fi


.SS Advanced options
.SS Aspect ratios
.P
tovid automatically determines aspect ratio of the input video by
playing it in mplayer. If your video plays with correct aspect in
mplayer, you should not need to override the default tovid behavior.

.P
If mplayer does not play your video with correct aspect, you may
provide an explicit aspect ratio in one of several ways:

.nf
  -full           Same as -aspect 4:3
  -wide           Same as -aspect 16:9
  -panavision     Same as -aspect 235:100
  -aspect WIDTH:HEIGHT
      Custom aspect, where WIDTH and HEIGHT are integers.
.fi


.P
NOTE: This is the INPUT aspect ratio. tovid chooses an optimal
output aspect ratio for the selected disc format (VCD, DVD, etc.)
and does the appropriate letterboxing or anamorphic scaling.

.SS Video adjustment
.nf
  -quality NUM (EXPERIMENTAL)
      Desired output quality, on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10
      giving the best quality at the expense of a larger
      output file. Output size can vary by approximately a
      factor of 4 (that is, -quality 1 output can be 25%
      the size of -quality 10 output). Your results may vary.
      
      At present, this option affects both output
      bitrate and quantization (but may, in the future, affect
      other quality/size-related attributes). Use -vbitrate
      if you want to explicitly provide a maximium bitrate.
  
  -vbitrate NUM
      Maximum bitrate to use for video (in kbits/sec). Must be
      within allowable limits for the given format. Overrides
      default values. Ignored for VCD.
  
  -interlaced (EXPERIMENTAL)
      Do interlaced encoding of the input video. Use this option if
      your video is interlaced, and you want to preserve as much
      picture quality as possible. Ignored for VCD.
  
  -deinterlace (DEPRECATED)
      Use this option if your source video is interlaced. You can
      usually tell if you can see a bunch of horizontal lines when
      you pause the video during playback. If you have recorded
      a video from TV or your VCR, it may be interlaced. Use this
      option to convert to progressive (non-interlaced) video. This
      option is DEPRECATED, and will probably be ditched in favor of
      interlaced encoding, which is better in almost every way.
  
  -subtitles FILE
      Get subtitles from FILE and encode them into the video.
      WARNING: This hard-codes the subtitles into the video, and you
      cannot turn them off while viewing the video. By default, no
      subtitles are loaded. If your video is already compliant with the
      chosen output format, it will be re-encoded to include the subtitles.
  
  -type {live|animation|bw}
      Optimize video encoding for different kinds of video. Use
      'live' (default) for live-action video, use 'animation' for
      cartoons or anime, and 'bw' for black-and-white video.
      This option currently only has an effect with KVCD/KSVCD
      output formats; other formats may support this in the future.
  
  -safe PERCENT
      Fit the video within a safe area defined by PERCENT. For example,
      "-safe 90%" will scale the video to 90% of the width/height of
      the output resolution, and pad the edges with a black border. Use
      this if some of the picture is cut off when played on your TV.
      The percent sign is optional.
  
  -filters {none,denoise,contrast,all} (default none)
      Apply post-processing filters to enhance the video. If your input
      video is very high quality, use 'none'. If your input video is grainy,
      use 'denoise'; if it looks washed out or faded, use 'contrast'. You
      can use multiple filters separated by commas. To apply all filters,
      use 'all'.
  
  -fps RATIO
      Force input video to be interpreted as [NUM] frames per second.
      May be necessary for some ASF, MOV, or other videos. NUM
      should be an integer ratio such as "24000:1001" (23.976fps),
      "30000:1001" (29.97fps), or "25:1" (25fps). This option is
      temporary, and may disappear in future releases.
.fi


.SS Audio adjustment
.nf
  -normalize
      Normalize the volume of the audio. Useful if the audio is too
      quiet or too loud, or you want to make volume consistent for
      a bunch of videos.
  
  -abitrate NUM
      Encode audio at NUM kilobits per second.
      Reasonable values include 128, 224, and 384. The default is 224 kbits/sec,
      good enough for most encodings. The value must be within the allowable
      range for the chosen disc format; Ignored for VCD, which must be 224.
.fi


.SS Other options
.nf
  -debug
      Print extra debugging information to the log file. Useful in
      diagnosing problems if they occur. This option also leaves
      the log file (with a .log extension) in the directory after
      encoding finishes.
  
  -fake
      Do not actually encode; only print the commands (mplayer,
      mpeg2enc etc.) that would be executed. Useful in debugging;
      have tovid give you the commands, and run them manually.
  
  -priority {low|medium|high}
      Sets the main encoding process to the given priority. With
      high priority, it may take other programs longer to load
      and respond. With lower priority, other programs will be
      more responsive, but encoding may take 30-40% longer.
      The default is high priority.
  
  -discsize NUM
      Sets the desired target DVD/CD-R size to NUM MB (10^6).
      Default is 700 for CD, 4500 for DVD. Use higher values at your own
      risk. Use 650 or lower if you plan to burn to smaller-capacity CDs.
  
  -parallel
      Will perform encode/rip processes in parallel using named
      pipes. Maximizes CPU utilization and minimizes disk usage.
  
  -update SECS
      Print status updates at intervals of SECS seconds. This affects
      how regularly the progress-meter is updated. The default is once
      per second
  
  -mplayeropts "OPTIONS"
      Append OPTIONS to the mplayer command run during video encoding.
      Use this if you want to add specific video filters (documented in
      the mplayer manual page). Overriding some options will cause
      encoding to fail, so use this with caution!
  
  -ffmpeg (EXPERIMENTAL)
      Use ffmpeg for video encoding, instead of mplayer/mpeg2enc.
      Encoding will be noticeably faster; (S)VCD and DVD are supported,
      but KVCD/KDVD is not fully supported yet.
  
  -nofifo (EXPERIMENTAL)
      Do not use a FIFO pipe for video encoding. If you are getting
      "Broken pipe" errors with normal encoding, try this option.
      WARNING: This uses lots of disk space (about 2 GB per minute of
      video).
.fi


.SS Examples
.TP
tovid \-in foo.avi \-out foo_encoded
Convert foo.avi using default options (NTSC DVD), and put the encoded
video in foo_encoded.mpg.
.TP
tovid \-pal \-vcd foo.avi \-out foo_encoded
Convert foo.avi to PAL VCD format, outputting to foo_encoded.mpg.

.SS Contact
.P
For further assistance, contact information, forum and IRC links,
please refer to the tovid homepage (http://tovid.org/).


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.1 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/src/en/tovid.t2t -o /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/man/tovid.1

