tovid FAQ


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//


: My encoded video plays back extremely fast, as if it's in fast-forward.
For some reason, certain video codecs are identified as using
1000 frames per second. (You can see this by running [idvid #idvid] on the video.)
You may be able to fix it by re-encoding using the -fps`` option
to force a framerate.

: Why is it so slow?

Short answer: because video encoding is a very CPU-intensive process.
Longer, more complicated answer: because there are many factors that can
influence encoding time, including, but not limited to: the speed of your
CPU, the format of the input video, the resolution you're encoding to, and the
bitrate, quality, and denoising that are in effect. While I don't have
very detailed statistics on encoding times yet, in my experience it's
common for encoding to take two to three times the length of the video on
my AMD Athlon 1600XP. So if you're encoding a 2-hour movie, it could take
from four to six hours, depending on your CPU speed. DVD output takes longer
than VCD or SVCD output. There are most likely some performance improvements
that could be made, but for now you can probably expect that encoding video
will take a long time.

: Why is my CPU only showing 50% usage during encoding?

This is another complex question that I don't have a good answer for.
The performance of tovid is steadily improving with each new release, and
my goal is to have the potential for near-100% CPU usage during encoding,
but unfortunately it's not quite that simple. This situation should be much
improved as of version 0.18, which includes the ``-parallel`` option
for both [tovid #tovid] and postproc; try using this option
if you find that your CPU is not being utilized fully.

: What fonts can I use in [makemenu #makemenu]
(or, why do I have so few fonts to choose from when making menus from the
GUI)?

The argument given to ``-font`` must be one of
the fonts listed by the command ``convert -list type``. Many of
your installed fonts may not be available; if you want to maximize the
number of fonts available to [makemenu #makemenu]**, download and run
[Anthony Thyssen's http://www.cit.gu.edu.au/~anthony/anthony.html]
[imagick_type_gen.pl http://www.cit.gu.edu.au/~anthony/software/imagick_type_gen.pl]
script and run it like this: ``imagick_type_gen.pl > ~/.magick/type.xml``.
If that doesn't work, try ``imagick_type_gen.pl > ~/.magick/type.mgk``.

: When I run ``vcdxbuild my_disc.xml``, I get: ``ERROR: charset conversion failed``.
How do I fix this?

This is a problem that crops up with some versions of ``vcdxbuild``.
If it happens to you, try using ``vcdxbuild --filename-encoding=iso8859-1 my_disc.xml``.

: Where do I get mjpegtools or mplayer for [Debian http://www.debian.org/]
or a Debian-based distribution?

Use Christian Marillat's apt repository, by adding
``deb ftp://ftp.nerim.net/debian-marillat/ unstable main`` to your
``/etc/apt/sources.list`` file.

: When running ``makedvd -burn``, I get
``unable to open64("/dev/dvd",O_RDONLY): Permission denied``. What does this mean?

It probably means you don't have permission to burn DVDs, and must
burn them as the root user. To burn as root, run
``su -c "makedvd -burn MyDisc.xml"``.

: When running ``tovidgui.py``, I get ``No module named wxPython.wx``, or
``Error -3 while decompressing data: invalid window size``.

wxPython problems have been occurring frequently with [Mandriva
http://www.mandriva/] and other Mandrake Linux distributions.  [One possible
solution http://www.createphpbb.com/phpbb/viewtopic.php?t=89&mforum=tovid] is
to upgrade wxPythonGTK using the latest [source RPM from Cooker
ftp://mandrake.mirrors.pair.com/Mandrakelinux/devel/cooker/SRPMS/main/].

: I can't choose a disc format or TV format; I just see empty boxes in the GUI.

Try switching to a different GTK theme. If you don't use GNOME, you
may find [gtk-theme-switch http://www.muhri.net/nav.php3?node=gts]
to be useful.

