Installing tovid


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//

Following are instructions for installing the tovid suite.


==From a package==

Several tovid users have kindly created packages for tovid. Here are the ones
that I know about:

- [tovid Gentoo ebuild http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=84761]. See
  [Installing 3rd Party Ebuilds http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Installing_3rd_Party_Ebuilds] for help
  installing.
- [Debian .deb http://julien.valroff.free.fr/].
- [SuSE RPMs http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/2108685/com/tovid-0.19-0.oc2pus.1.noarch.rpm.html]


(Other package contributions are welcome, so if you've packaged tovid, please
let us know by posting to the
[tovid forum http://www.createphpbb.com/phpbb/tovid.html].)


==From the source tarball==

If you install from the source ``.tar.gz``, you should first install
[all dependencies dependencies.html], to prevent potential problems.

Next, download
[tovid-0.23.tar.gz http://download.berlios.de/tovid/tovid-0.23.tar.gz].
This has all the [command-line scripts cli.html], and provides the core
functionality of tovid. Save this somewhere on your computer (for now,
we'll assume it's saved in ``~/Downloads/``).

If you would like use the [tovid GUI gui.html], you'll also need
[tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/tovid/tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz?download]. You must install the command-line scripts before installing
the GUI.

Next, to extract the tarball: Open a terminal window (such as XTerm, RXVT, or
Konsole) and type the following commands (substituting ``~/Downloads`` for
the path where you saved the .tar.gz:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ tar -xzvf tovid-0.23.tar.gz
```

The installation files will go into a subdirectory ``tovid-0.23`` within the
current directory.  Next, do the following:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads/tovid-0.23
$ ./configure
$ su -c "make install"
```

If you decide you don't want tovid installed anymore, run ``make uninstall``
from the original installation directory (``~/Downloads/tovid-0.23``).  Repeat
the above procedure for the ``tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz`` package if you would like
to install the graphical interface.


==From SVN==

You can get a copy of the latest development version of tovid by checking it
out with [Subversion http://subversion/tigris.org/] (SVN). Here's how:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/tovid/trunk/tovid
$ cd tovid
$ aclocal
$ autoconf
$ automake
```

If you're installing the GUI, repeat these steps in its directory (``aclocal``,
``autoconf``, and ``automake``). Finally, do ``./configure`` and
``su -c "make install"`` as shown above in each repsective directory to install
tovid (and the GUI) system-wide.

You can [browse the SVN repository http://svn.berlios.de/wsvn/tovid] to see
what other modules are available for checkout.
