Contributing to tovid


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''


//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//

If you like tovid, please show your appreciation by giving something
back to the community that developed it. There are many different ways
to contribute...


==Participate==

This is the easiest way to contribute, involving no long-term commitment, no
obligation, and no responsibility for anything! Bug reports, success stories,
ideas and criticisms are all welcome. Get in touch with other tovid users and
developers, to brainstorm or shoot the breeze.

- [Post to the forum http://www.createphpbb.com/tovid]
- [Chat in the IRC channel irc://irc.freenode.net/tovid]
- [Subscribe to the mailing list https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/tovid-users]



==Hack==

If you have any coding experience (or would like to start learning), you're
encouraged to hack the tovid code, and share your improvements with others.
Open-source software flourishes when many people study and tinker with the
source code.

To work on the tovid code directly, you may become a tovid developer. Here's
how:

- Participate a little bit first. The only requirement for being a tovid
  developer is a demonstrated interest, so stop by the
  [IRC channel irc://irc.freenode.net/tovid] or
  [forum http://www.createphpbb.com/tovid] and make your interest known.
- Get a free account on [BerliOS http://www.berlios.de/], where the tovid
  project is hosted.
- Ask Eric (wapcaplet) to make you a developer.




==Wikify==

If coding isn't your forte, you may prefer to
[edit the tovid wiki http://openfacts.berlios.de/index-en.phtml?title=tovid].
Wikis are a great way to publish, exchange, and revise ideas; they're also
an ideal place for FAQs, HOWTOs, and other community-authored documents.


==Translate==

If you would like to help translate the tovid documentation into another
language, first download the [txt2tags http://txt2tags.sf.net/] sources
for one of the existing translations:

- English: [tovid_t2t_en.tar.gz ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/tovid/tovid_t2t_en.tar.gz]
- Espanol: [tovid_t2t_es.tar.gz ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/tovid/tovid_t2t_es.tar.gz]


Extract the tarball with a command like this:

```
$ tar -xzvf tovid_t2t_en.tar.gz
t2t/en/
t2t/en/manual.t2t
t2t/en/makeslides.t2t
t2t/en/install.t2t
...
```

Each ``.t2t`` file is written in the plain-text [txt2tags http://txt2tags.sf.net]
format, which you can read and modify with any text editor. Translate as many
or as few of them as you like (we can always combine the work of several
translators) and contact the tovid developers through the
[forum http://www.createphpbb.com/tovid] or
[IRC channel irc://irc.freenode.net/tovid] to send them your completed work.


==Package==

There are so many packaging formats (``.rpm``, ``.deb``, and ``.ebuild`` to
name a few), the tovid project could really use a packaging specialist--someone
who could be responsible for keeping the various packages in sync with the most
recent source distribution of tovid. If you are such a person, we'd love
to hear from you!

But even if you are just interested in maintaining a tovid package for your
favorite distribution, please contact the developers through the
[forum http://www.createphpbb.com/tovid] or
[IRC channel irc://irc.freenode.net/tovid].

