Installing tovid


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//

Following are instructions for installing the tovid suite.


==From a package==

Several tovid users have kindly created packages for tovid. Here are the ones
that I know about:

- [tovid Gentoo ebuild http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=84761]. See
  [Installing 3rd Party Ebuilds http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Installing_3rd_Party_Ebuilds] for help
  installing.
- [Debian .deb http://julien.valroff.free.fr/].
- [SuSE RPMs http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/2108685/com/tovid-0.19-0.oc2pus.1.noarch.rpm.html]


(Other package contributions are welcome, so if you've packaged tovid, please
let us know by posting to the
[tovid forum http://www.createphpbb.com/tovid].)


==From the source tarball==

If you install from the source ``.tar.gz``, you should first install
[all dependencies dependencies.html], to prevent potential problems.

Next, download
[tovid-0.25.tar.gz http://download.berlios.de/tovid/tovid-0.25.tar.gz].
This tarball contains everything you need to run tovid and the GUI.
Save this somewhere on your computer (for now, we'll assume it's saved
in ``~/Downloads/``).

Now, to extract the tarball: Open a terminal window (such as XTerm, RXVT, or
Konsole) and type the following commands (substituting ``~/Downloads`` for
the path where you saved the .tar.gz:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ tar -xzvf tovid-0.25.tar.gz
```

The installation files will go into a subdirectory ``tovid-0.25`` within the
current directory.  Next, do the following:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads/tovid-0.25
$ ./configure
$ ./setup.sh
```

You will be prompted for the root password to install tovid system-wide.
If you decide you don't want tovid installed anymore, run ``make uninstall``
from the original installation directory (``~/Downloads/tovid-0.25``).


==From SVN==

For life on the bleeding edge, you can get a copy of the latest development
version of tovid by checking it out with
[Subversion http://subversion/tigris.org/] (SVN). Here's how (again, assuming
you want to save it in ``~/Downloads``):

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/tovid/trunk/tovid
$ cd tovid
$ ./bootstrap
$ ./configure
$ make
$ su -c "make install"
```

From now on, you can just do this:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads/tovid
$ svn update
$ ./bootstrap && ./configure && make && su -c "make install"
```

to keep up with the latest changes. See the [SVN crash course svncrash.html]
for more about dealing with SVN. If you install from SVN, you're strongly
encouraged to start hanging out with the developers on the IRC channel, or on
the tovid forum, to get involved with development. Even if you don't know the
first thing about code, your input is needed. (Do you really want to leave
tovid in the hands of a bunch of code monkeys?)
