.TH "animenu manual" 1 "" ""

.SS Name
.P
animenu: Create a DVD with animated menus

.SS Description
.P
animenu is a command\-line script for creating a DVD filesystem with animated thumbnail menus.

.SS Usage
.nf
  animenu [OPTIONS] \e
     -files <file list> -titles <title list>
     -out OUT_PREFIX
.fi


.P
For example:

.nf
   $ animenu -files File1.mpg File2.mpg File3.mpg \e
       -titles "Episode 1" "Episode 2" "Episode 3" \e
       -out Season_one
.fi


.P
Input files must be MPEG, and the number of '''\-files''' and '''\-titles''' must be equal.

.SS Options
.TP
\-keepfiles
Keep all intermediate/temporary files (helps with debugging)
.TP
\-submenus
Create a submenu with chapters for each video.
.TP
\-ani\-submenus
Create an animated submenu with chapters for each video
.TP
\-menu\-length
The desired animated main menu length in seconds
.TP
\-submenu\-length
The disired animated submenu length in seconds
.TP
\-menu\-title
Title for the root menu \- may be longer than thumbnail labels
.TP
\-menu\-font
Font to use for titles: use for example either: "Arial" , or "/full/path/to/arial.ttf" (default: imagemagick default font)
.TP
\-menu\-fontsize
Font size for main menu \- best to \-preview if you use this.
.TP
\-thumb\-font
Font to use for thumb titles in main menu. See \-menu\-font.
.TP
\-menu\-bg
Menu background image \- pick one of correct aspect ratio: ie. it should still look good when resize to 720x480 (PAL 720x576)
.TP
\-ani\-menu\-bg
Menu background video \- again, needs to be resize to 720x480 or 720x576, so pick one of appropriate aspect ratio/resolution
.TP
\-menu\-fade
Fade the menu into the provided background image
.TP
\-transparency
The amount of transparency for the menu (0 \-> 100): Lower values are more transparent, ie. less visible menu. Do not use this for dark backgrounds like the default gray/black
.TP
\-feather
Feather thumbs: a frameless vignette look (preview only now)
.TP
\-menu\-audio
An audio file for the main menu background
.TP
\-menu\-audio\-fade
Number of sec to fade given menu audio out (default: no fade)
.TP
\-submenu\-audio NUM
(not implemented yet) List of files for submenu backgrounds: must equal the number of chapters (default: 6 chapters)
.TP
\-chapters NUM
The number of submenu chapters for each video (default: 6)
.TP
\-preview
Display a preview of the menu with selected options and exit
.TP
\-seek
For main menu only \- seek to N seconds before generating jpegs



.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.1 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/src/en/animenu.t2t -o /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/man/animenu.1

