.TH "makexml manual" 1 "" ""


.P
\fIThis document was last edited on Thursday, 09 February 2006.\fR

.SS Name
.P
makexml: Generate a video disc structure XML description

.SS Description
.P
makexml generates XML output describing an (S)VCD
or DVD file structure and navigation hierarchy in the format expected by
dvdauthor (http://dvdauthor.sourceforge.net/) or
vcdxbuild (http://www.vcdimager.org/).

.SS Usage
.nf
  makexml [OPTIONS] VIDEOS OUTFILE
.fi

.P
For example:

.nf
  makexml -menu MainMenu.mpg Season1.mpg Season2.mpg Featurettes.mpg MyDisc
.fi


.SS Options
.TP
\-dvd (default)
Generate the XML for a DVD menu, to be used with dvdauthor.
.TP
\-vcd
Generate the XML for a VCD menu, to be used with vcdxbuild.
.TP
\-svcd
Generate the XML for an SVCD menu, to be used with vcdxbuild.
.TP
\-overwrite
Overwrite any existing output files.

VIDEOS may be any of the following:

.TP
<file list>
List of one or more video files to include, separated by spaces. At
minimum, a DVD must have one video file. You can use shell wildcards
(i.e., "*.mpg") to include multiple files easily. Put filenames in
quotes if they have spaces in them.

.TP
\-group <file list> \-endgroup
(DVD only) List of video files to include as one single title. This is useful
if you have split a movie into several video files.

.TP
\-menu VIDEO <file list>
Use video file VIDEO as a menu from which you can jump to each of
the listed video files. If you have multiple menus, include a
top menu so they are reachable.

.TP
\-topmenu VIDEO [\-menu VIDEO <file list>] [\-menu VIDEO <file list>]...
Use video file VIDEO for the top\-level (VMGM) menu. The top menu will
jump to each of the subsequent [\-menu...] videos listed. Use this only if
you have multiple sub\-menus to jump to. You can only have one top menu.

.TP
\-titlesets
(DVD only) Forces the creation of a separate titleset per title. This
is useful if the titles of a DVD have different video formats,
e.g. PAL + NTSC or 4:3 + 16:9. If used with menus, there must be a
\-topmenu option that specifies a menu file with an entry for each of the
titlesets.

.TP
\-chapters <interval>
(DVD only) Creates a chapter every <interval> minutes (default 5 minutes:
without \fB\-chapters\fR, each movie will be divided into 5\-minute chapters). 
This option can be put at any position in a <file list> and is valid for 
all subsequent titles until a new \-chapters option is encountered. Using 
this option may take some time, since the duration of the video is calculated.

.TP
\-slides <file list>
Create a slide\-show of still images

OUT_PREFIX is the file you want to put the resulting XML in

.SS Usage notes
.P
makexml checks to make sure the video filenames you
give it exist, but it does not check whether they are valid for the
chosen disc format. MPEG videos of menus should have the specified
number of buttons for reaching each of the videos, and, if you're
using DVD, should be multiplexed with their corresponding subtitles
using spumux of the dvdauthor 0.6.0 package prior to
authoring using dvdauthor. If you use the makemenu (makemenu.html)
component to generate the menu, this should all be handled for you.

.SS Examples
.TP
makexml \-dvd title\-1.mpg title\-2.mpg title\-3.mpg My_DVD
Make a DVD without a menu. Title 1, 2, and 3 will play in sequnce.

.TP
makexml \-dvd \-group chapter\-1.mpg chapter\-2.mpg chapter\-3.mpg \-end\-group My_DVD
Make a DVD without a menu. Chapters 1, 2, 3 will be in the same title, and
pressing the remote's <next> and <prev> buttons will navigate the chapters.

.TP
makexml \-dvd \-menu main_menu.mpg \-chapters 3 movie\-1.mpg \-chapters 10 movie\-2.mpg My_DVD
Make a DVD with a main menu that points to two movies. movie\-1.mpg will
be divided into 3 minute chapters, and movie\-2 will have 7 minute chapters.

.SS Contact
.P
For further assistance, contact information, forum and IRC links,
please refer to the tovid homepage (http://tovid.org/).


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.1 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/src/en/makexml.t2t -o /pub/svn/tovid/tovid/docs/man/makexml.1

