.TH "makedvd manual" 1 "" ""


.P
\fIThis document was last edited on Monday, 06 February 2006.\fR

.SS Name
.P
makedvd\-\-Create and burn DVD image from dvdauthor XML input

.SS Synopsis
.nf
  makedvd [ OPTIONS ] XML_INFILE
.fi


.SS Description
.P
makedvd takes an XML file as input; this file is
expected to contain a DVD file\-structure specification in the format
understood by dvdauthor (http://dvdauthor.sourceforge.net/).
(For a description of the XML format, see the dvdauthor manual page.)
If you used makexml to create the XML file, you can
use it as input to makedvd.

.P
To ensure that this script successfully executes, please run
it from a directory with plenty of free space. "Plenty" would
be 10 GB for single\-layer discs, and 20 GB for dual\-layer discs.
Running this program may slow down your other applications,
due to intense disk activity.

.SS Features
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Configurable burn device and burn speed
.IP \(bu 3
Create an image only, or burn an existing image
.IP \(bu 3
Burn directly without creating an image (saves hard disk space)
.RE

.SS Options
.nf
  -author
      Author the DVD described by **XML_INFILE**. Overwrites an existing 
      directory containing the dvdauthor output if already present.
  
  -image
      Create a DVD iso image of the DVD described by **XML_INFILE**. 
      Overwrites an existing ISO file if already present.
  
  -burn
      Burn the DVD described by **XML_INFILE**. The dvd filesystem is 
      automatically authored and the DVD is burned directly from that. If 
      an iso image is present, or if **-image** is specified, an image will 
      be made first, and then the dvd burned from that. If not given, 
      the dvd wlll be burned directly     from the authored filesystem.
  
  -device DEVFS_NAME (default /dev/dvd)
      Burn the disc image to DEVICE, the Linux device filesystem
      name of your DVD-recorder. Common examples might be /dev/dvdrw,
      /dev/scd1, and /dev/hdc. You can also use a bus/id/lun triple
      such as ATAPI:0,1,0
  
  -speed NUM (default 1)
      Burn disc at speed NUM.
  
  -label DISC_LABEL
      Uses "DISC_LABEL" as the volume ID. This appears as the mount
      name of the disc on some computer platforms. Must be <=32
      alphanumeric digits without spaces.
.fi


.SS Examples
.TP
makedvd \-burn \-device /dev/dvdrw foo.xml
Author the dvd filesystem and burn to /dev/dvdrw. makedvd will
automatically call dvdauthor to make the filesystem. \fB\-author\fR
is not explicitly needed. If there's an existing filesystem, it
will be burned.

.TP
makedvd \-author foo.xml
Author the dvd filesystem and exit without burning. If the output
directory given in foo.xml already exists, then the contents are
removed before authoring. At this point, the DVD can be previewed
by calling \fIxine dvd:/path/to/output/directory\fR.

.TP
makedvd \-image foo.xml
Create an image. makedvd will automatically call dvdauthor to make
the filesystem. \fB\-author\fR is not explicitly needed. If there's 
an existing filesystem, it will be imaged with that.

.TP
makedvd \-author \-image foo.xml
Author the dvd filesystem and make an .iso image. Any existing 
filesystems or iso image files will be overwritten.

.SS Contact
.P
For further assistance, contact information, forum and IRC links,
please refer to the tovid homepage (http://tovid.org/).


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.1 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i /pub/svn/tovid/docs/t2t/en/makedvd.t2t -o /pub/svn/tovid/docs/man/makedvd.1

