tovid dependencies


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//

Here are some things to know before you [install tovid install.html], including
environmental requirements (platform, hardware, shell resources) and software
dependencies.


==Dependencies==
tovid has amassed some dependency hell during its development.  Here is the
complete list of dependencies, and to what extent they are required:

: [Python http://www.python.org/]
    An interpreter that allows you to run programs written in
    Python. Python is becoming increasingly common, so it's good to have a Python
    interpreter installed. If you want to use the graphical interface for tovid,
    you need this.

: [wxPython http://www.wxpython.org/]
    Provides support for GUIs written in Python using the
    wxWidgets API. You also need this to run the GUI.

: [mplayer http://www.mplayerhq.hu/]
    Probably the most robust and mature video player for Linux.
    Almost all of the tovid components depend heavily on mplayer for video
    playback and conversion, so this is a must-install. You'll want
    mplayer anyway, if you plan to be working with video.

: [mjpegtools http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/]
    Command-line tools for encoding and working with video,
    particularly MPEG. This is required by most of tovid's components, and you
    will need it in order to do anything useful with tovid.

: [ffmpeg http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/]
    Tools and libraries for recording, converting, and streaming
    audio and video. Used by several components, and required if you want to
    create DVDs in NTSC format.

: [ImageMagick http://www.imagemagick.org]
    A powerful set of command-line tools for formatting, resizing,
    converting and drawing on image files. This is used by the [makemenu makemenu.html], the
    menu-generation component of tovid. If you want to create video discs with
    menus, you need this. Many Linux distributions install this by
    default.

: [SoX http://sox.sourceforge.net/]
    The ImageMagick of audio processing, in a way. Command-line
    tools for converting, trimming, and filtering audio files. This is used by
    [makemenu makemenu.html].

: [dvdauthor http://dvdauthor.sourceforge.net/] 0.6.0 or newer
    Tools for creating DVD filesystems. If you want to make
    DVDs with tovid, you need this.

: [vcdimager http://www.vcdimager.org/]
    Tools for creating (S)VCD filesystems. If you want to make
    VCDs or SVCDs, you need this.

: [transcode http://zebra.fh-weingarten-de/~transcode/]
    Video stream processing and conversion tools. This is used
    by postproc (the tovid postprocessing component) and [dvrequant dvrequant.html] (the tovid
    DVD shrinking tool). Useful if you want to be able to fine-tune the output
    size of your videos, to fit a desired amount of content on a recordable
    DVD.

: [libdvdcss http://developers.videolan.org/libdvdcss/]
    DVD decryption routines, used for playing encrypted DVDs
    on your computer. Needed by [dvrequant dvrequant.html] for copying encrypted DVDs. You
    want this.

: [lsdvd http://untrepid.com/acidrip/lsdvd.html]
    Handy tool for viewing the attributes of DVD discs. Also
    needed by [dvrequant dvrequant.html], for copying discs.


Most of these tools are widely available in major package repositories;
chances are good that you can get them all through your distribution's preferred
package manager.

For best results, install all dependencies before moving onto
[installing tovid install.html].


==System requirements==

There are no known minimum system requirements for running tovid. If your
machine is capable of running a standard Linux installation, then you probably
have enough CPU power for video processing and playback.

If you're going to work with video files, you probably want to have plenty of
hard drive space to spare; the process of authoring a DVD might consume 11GB on
your disk, and if you are working on several DVD projects at once, the space
requirements multiply quickly. At minimum, you should have about 20GB that you
can devote to authoring DVDs. If you only plan to create (S)VCDs, you could get
by with only 6-8GB.

The tovid suite is developed and tested primarily on Linux. Some users have
also reported successful execution on FreeBSD, Cygwin, and OSX with only minor
modifications.  Nearly all of the components, being written in the ``bash``
scripting language, require ``bash``, as well as standard UNIX utilities like
``grep``, ``sed``, ``cat``, and ``awk``.  If you are running Linux, all of
these should already be available.


