Getting started


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

This chapter explains how to get tovid running on your computer.
If you already have tovid running, then you may skip directly to
[Using the GUI gui.html] or
[Using the command-line tools cli.html].


== Preliminaries ==

=== Requirements ===

There are no known minimum system requirements for running tovid. If your
machine is capable of running a standard Linux installation, then you probably
have enough CPU power for video processing and playback.  If you're going to
work with video files, you probably want to have plenty of hard drive space to
spare; the process of authoring a DVD might consume 11GB on your disk, and if
you are working on several DVD projects at once, the space requirements
multiply quickly. At minimum, you should have about 20GB that you can devote to
authoring DVDs. If you only plan to create (S)VCDs, you could get by with only
6-8GB.

The tovid suite is developed and tested primarily on Linux. Some users have
also reported successful execution on FreeBSD and Cygwin with only minor
modifications. Parts of the suite may work on other UNIX-like operating
systems, but that possibility is unverified at this point. There are currently
no plans to develop a Windows or Mac OS port, but if you are interested in
taking on the job, please contact the tovid developers!  Several software
packages are required in order to use various components of the tovid suite.
Nearly all of the components, being written in the ``bash`` scripting language,
require ``bash``, as well as standard UNIX utilities like ``grep``, ``sed``,
``cat``, and ``awk``.  If you are running Linux, all of these should already be
available.


=== Dependencies ===
tovid has amassed some dependency hell during its development.
Here is the complete list of dependencies, and to what extent they are required:

: [Python http://www.python.org/]
    An interpreter that allows you to run programs written in
    Python. Python is becoming increasingly common, so it's good to have a Python
    interpreter installed. If you want to use the graphical interface for tovid,
    you need this.

: [wxPython http://www.wxpython.org/]
    Provides support for GUIs written in Python using the
    wxWidgets API. You also need this to run the GUI.

: [mplayer http://www.mplayerhq.hu/]
    Probably the most robust and mature video player for Linux.
    Almost all of the tovid components depend heavily on mplayer for video
    playback and conversion, so this is a must-install. You'll want
    mplayer anyway, if you plan to be working with video.

: [mjpegtools http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/]
    Command-line tools for encoding and working with video,
    particularly MPEG. This is required by most of tovid's components, and you
    will need it in order to do anything useful with tovid.

: [ffmpeg http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/]
    Tools and libraries for recording, converting, and streaming
    audio and video. Used by several components, and required if you want to
    create DVDs in NTSC format.

: [ImageMagick http://www.imagemagick.org]
    A powerful set of command-line tools for formatting, resizing,
    converting and drawing on image files. This is used by the [makemenu makemenu.html], the
    menu-generation component of tovid. If you want to create video discs with
    menus, you need this. Many Linux distributions install this by
    default.

: [SoX http://sox.sourceforge.net/]
    The ImageMagick of audio processing, in a way. Command-line
    tools for converting, trimming, and filtering audio files. This is used by
    [makemenu makemenu.html].

: [dvdauthor http://dvdauthor.sourceforge.net/] 0.6.0 or newer
    Tools for creating DVD filesystems. If you want to make
    DVDs with tovid, you need this.

: [vcdimager http://www.vcdimager.org/]
    Tools for creating (S)VCD filesystems. If you want to make
    VCDs or SVCDs, you need this.

: [transcode http://zebra.fh-weingarten-de/~transcode/]
    Video stream processing and conversion tools. This is used
    by postproc (the tovid postprocessing component) and [dvrequant dvrequant.html] (the tovid
    DVD shrinking tool). Useful if you want to be able to fine-tune the output
    size of your videos, to fit a desired amount of content on a recordable
    DVD.

: [libdvdcss http://developers.videolan.org/libdvdcss/]
    DVD decryption routines, used for playing encrypted DVDs
    on your computer. Needed by [dvrequant dvrequant.html] for copying encrypted DVDs. You
    want this.

: [lsdvd http://untrepid.com/acidrip/lsdvd.html]
    Handy tool for viewing the attributes of DVD discs. Also
    needed by [dvrequant dvrequant.html], for copying discs.


Most of these tools are widely available in major package repositories;
chances are good that you can get them all through your distribution's preferred
package manager.


==Installation==


===Packages===

- [tovid Gentoo ebuild http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=84761]. See
  [Installing 3rd Party Ebuilds http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Installing_3rd_Party_Ebuilds] for help
  installing.
- [Debian .deb http://julien.valroff.free.fr/].
- [SuSE RPMs http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/2108685/com/tovid-0.19-0.oc2pus.1.noarch.rpm.html]


===Source tarball===
- [tovid_0.22.tar.gz http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/tovid/tovid-0.22.tar.gz?download]
  contains all the command-line scripts.
- [tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/tovid/tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz?download]
  contains the GUI and program icons. The command-line scripts must be
  installed before using the GUI.


Download the command-line package and save it on your computer.  We'll assume
it's saved in ``~/Downloads/``.  Next, open a terminal window (such as XTerm,
RXVT, or Konsole) and extract the tarball by typing the following commands:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ tar -xzvf tovid-0.22.tar.gz
```

The installation files will go into a subdirectory ``tovid-0.22`` within the
current directory.  Next, do the following:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads/tovid-0.22
$ ./configure
$ su -c "make install"
```

If you decide you don't want tovid installed anymore, run ``make uninstall``
from the original installation directory (``~/Downloads/tovid-0.22``).  Repeat
the above procedure for the ``tovid-gui-0.22.tar.gz`` package if you would like
to install the graphical interface.


=== CVS builds ===

You can get a copy of the latest development version of tovid through CVS. To
get this version, you need to have [CVS http://www.cvshome.org/] installed.
Using CVS is a little different; instead of just downloading tovid, you'll be
"checking out" a copy of it. Using the same example directory as above:

```
$ cd ~/Downloads
$ cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/tovid login
Logging in to :pserver:anonymous@cvs.sourceforge.net:2401/cvsroot/tovid
CVS password: (your email address)
$ cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/tovid co -P tovid
$ cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/tovid co -P gui
$ cd tovid
$ aclocal
$ autoconf
$ automake
```

If you're installing the GUI, repeat these steps in its directory (``aclocal``,
``autoconf``, and ``automake``). Finally, do ``./configure`` and
``su -c "make install"`` as shown above in each repsective directory to install
tovid (and the GUI) system-wide.

Also available through CVS are three additional modules: ``docs`` contains
the [DocBook http://www.docbook.org/] sources (complete with illustrations)
of the documentation you are reading; ``test-tools`` is a suite of scripts
designed for testing the encoding options of mplayer and mpeg2enc (along
with some other small freebies); ``pytovid`` will eventually become a
complete re-implementation of tovid in the Python language.  If you are
interested in these other branches of development, please grab the CVS
modules and get in touch with the developers on the ``#tovid`` channel of
``irc.freenode.net``.

