pytovid: A Python implementation of tovid


%!include(xhtml): ''navmenu.html''

//This document was last edited on %%mtime(%A, %d %B %Y).//


This document summarizes the origins, development, and inner workings of
**pytovid**, a reimplementation of the [tovid suite scripts cli.html]
in the [Python http://www.python.org/] programming language. For additional
updates and discussion, see the
[pytovid forum thread http://www.createphpbb.com/phpbb/viewtopic.php?t=167&mforum=tovid].


== Getting pytovid ==

Installing pytovid is easy.
[Download the tarball http://tovid.sf.net/download/pytovid-0.01.tar.gz], then
open a terminal window and issue these commands at the prompt (``$``):

```
$ tar -xzf pytovid-0.01.tar.gz
$ cd pytovid-0.01
$ su -c "python setup.py install"
Password: (enter root password)
```

If all goes well, the pytovid modules will be installed in a system-wide
place, so all Python programs can use them. For more on how this works
(and how to customize the process),
see [Installing Python Modules http://www.python.org/doc/current/inst/].


== Why reimplement? ==

It seems like with any project of moderate size, there comes a point where it
makes sense to ask "Should we just start over from scratch?" That time has
come, for tovid, and I've decided to start building a brand new tovid, using
the [Python http://www.python.org/] programming language (more on why Python
later).

You may be wondering: Why start from scratch when you already have something
that works? If it ain't broken, why fix it? Good questions. There's a only one
really good reason for this reimplementation: maintenance.

With any software (but with open-source software especially), it's all about
code maintenance. From the moment tovid was released
[on sourceforge http://sourceforge.net/projects/tovid/], it has been undergoing
bugfixes, feature enhancements, portability improvements, and other revisions
to the code. Developers (and sometimes users) spend a lot of time reading,
and trying to understand, that code. The choice of programming language
has a strong effect on the simplicity and intelligibility of the code.

The existing tovid suite is written in
[shell script http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_script]. While not the hardest
language to understand, its syntax can be quite cryptic even for simple
operations. Shell script is not designed for handling complicated data
structures (such as multimedia video files), and its arithmetic abilities are
very limited. It's not very user-friendly when things go wrong, and you often
don't get enough diagnostic information (such as line numbers) to locate bugs
quickly. New features tend to be added in a
[crufty http://www.clueless.com/jargon3.0.0/crufty.html] fashion, making
maintenance even harder for future generations.

It's time for a change--before tovid gets any bigger or more complicated,
we need an implementation that is simpler and more transparent. We need
something that the average user can look at and understand, and even debug
and improve.


== So, why Python? ==

I chose Python as the new development language mainly because it's
(relatively) easy to read. My goal is for tovid's source code to be
readable by the average user--simple and well-documented.


== Module documentation ==

- libtovid:
    - [TDL libtovid.TDL.html]
    - [Parser libtovid.Parser.html]
    - [Project libtovid.Project.html]


== Hacking it ==

[Hacking http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html] the pytovid source
code is strongly encouraged, even if you've never done any programming before.
If you don't feel comfortable editing the source code, you may consider simply
reading it and trying to understand it better--and if you have any problems
understanding it, please let the developers know! It's your feedback, whether
you hack or not, that drives open-source software to improve.

If you've never programmed, but would like to start learning right now,
try [Instant Hacking http://www.hetland.org/python/instant-hacking.php].
[python.org http://www.python.org] has a wealth of Python resources,
including a [Beginner's Guide http://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide] and
a thorough [tutorial http://www.python.org/doc/2.4.2/tut/tut.html].
If you've programmed before, but don't know Python yet,
[Dive into Python http://diveintopython.org/] is a good introduction.

Before editing the pytovid code, I'd suggest reading Guido van Rossum's
[Python Style Guide http://www.python.org/doc/essays/styleguide.html].
I don't care much if pytovid follows his code-formatting preferences, but
there's some good advice there on comments, docstrings, and naming
conventions.

Indentation is 4 spaces--no tabs allowed! Before doing any pytovid editing,
make sure your editor is configured to insert 4 spaces instead of a tab.

