tovid design language


==Disc==

```
-topmenu MENUNAME (default None)
    Use MENUNAME for the top-level menu on the disc.

-tvsys [pal|ntsc] (default ntsc)
    Make the disc for the specified TV system.

-format [vcd|svcd|dvd] (default dvd)
    Create a disc of the specified format.

```

==Menu==

```
-highlightcolor [#RRGGBB|#RGB|COLORNAME] (default red)
    Undocumented option

-font FONTNAME (default Helvetica)
    Use FONTNAME for the menu text.

-format [vcd|svcd|dvd] (default dvd)
    Generate a menu compliant with the specified disc format

-tvsys [pal|ntsc] (default ntsc)
    Make the menu for the specified TV system

-selectcolor [#RRGGBB|#RGB|COLORNAME] (default green)
    Undocumented option

-textcolor [#RRGGBB|#RGB|COLORNAME] (default white)
    Undocumented option

-fontsize NUM (default 24)
    Use a font size of NUM pixels.

-background IMAGE (default None)
    Use IMAGE (in most any graphic format) as a background.

-audio AUDIOFILE (default None)
    Use AUDIOFILE for background music while the menu plays.

-alignment [left|center|right] (default left)
    Undocumented option

-linksto "TITLE" [, "TITLE"] (default [])
    Comma-separated list of quoted titles; these are the
titles that will be displayed (and linked) from the menu.


```

==Video==

```
-normalize  (default False)
    Normalize the volume of the audio. Useful if the audio is too
quiet or too loud, or you want to make volume consistent for a
bunch of videos.


-safe [0-100]% (default 100%)
    Fit the video within a safe area defined by PERCENT. For
example, '-safe 90%' will scale the video to 90% of the
width/height of the output resolution, and pad the edges with a
black border. Use this if some of the picture is cut off when
played on your TV.


-vcd  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-aspect WIDTH:HEIGHT (default 4:3)
    Force the input video to be the given aspect ratio, where WIDTH
and HEIGHT are integers.


-quality [1-9] (default 8)
    Desired output quality, on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 giving
the best quality at the expense of a larger output file. Output
size can vary by approximately a factor of 4 (that is, -quality 1
output can be 25% the size of -quality 10 output). Your results may
vary.


-format [vcd|svcd|dvd|half-dvd|dvd-vcd] (default dvd)
    Make video compliant with the specified format

-interlaced  (default False)
    Do interlaced encoding of the input video. Use this option if
your video is interlaced, and you want to preserve as much picture
quality as possible. Ignored for VCD.


-dvd  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-svcd  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-in FILENAME (default None)
    Undocumented option

-tvsys [ntsc|pal] (default ntsc)
    Make the video compliant with the specified TV system

-vbitrate [0-9800] (default 6000)
    Maximum bitrate to use for video (in kbits/sec). Must be within
allowable limits for the given format. Overrides default values.
Ignored for VCD.


-deinterlace  (default False)
    Use this option if your source video is interlaced. You can
usually tell if you can see a bunch of horizontal lines when you
pause the video during playback. If you have recorded a video from
TV or your VCR, it may be interlaced. Use this option to convert to
progressive (non-interlaced) video. This option is DEPRECATED, and
will probably be ditched in favor of interlaced encoding, which is
better in almost every way.


-abitrate [0-1536] (default 224)
    Encode audio at NUM kilobits per second.  Reasonable values
include 128, 224, and 384. The default is 224 kbits/sec, good
enough for most encodings. The value must be within the allowable
range for the chosen disc format; Ignored for VCD, which must be
224.


-half-dvd  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-dvd-vcd  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-pal  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-ntsc  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-ntscfilm  (default False)
    Undocumented option

-subtitles FILE (default None)
    Get subtitles from FILE and encode them into the video.
WARNING: This hard-codes the subtitles into the video, and you
cannot turn them off while viewing the video. By default, no
subtitles are loaded. If your video is already compliant with the
chosen output format, it will be re-encoded to include the
subtitles.


-out FILENAME (default None)
    Undocumented option

```

